Right, once you've done your testing,
however you've done it,
working with the results is really
important, it's invaluable but
only if you actually use the results,
right?
Again, there's no point
in doing testing for
the sake of it unless
you can do something.
First thing I do is prioritize
the issues that come up,
the things that I've observed.
I prioritize them in three ways.
First of all,
I prioritize them on the user impact.
I start by categorizing issues based
on their severity with a focus
really on the showstoppers,
the things that, okay, I'm done.
If this was a normal situation,
I would've given up now.
Those that you really wanna pay
attention into those, obviously.
The second thing you need to pay
attention to is the business impact.
So some of those issues will have
a bigger impact on the profitability of
the business.
They might not be showstoppers but
if someone is really struggling to
check out, that's fairly important.
And then finally, effort, cuz there'll
be some things that okay, they're not as
big a deal but they're so quick to fix
we might as well kind of attitude.
So you're balancing those three
different criteria when trying to
prioritise everything out in terms
of how you're gonna adopt them.
The other often overlooked benefit of
usability testing is the huge impact
that it can have on culture and
your stakeholders and how they think.
If you want people to care
more about usability and
care more about the user experience,
if you can get them to watch a usability
test session, it will transform them.
It is incredible.
How many of you have actually
sat in a usability test session.
See now it's quite interesting, right?
And that's no criticism by the way,
most people haven't, right?
It changes you.
That sounds so metaphysical.
Yes, it's a life changing experience.
But it really does watching somebody
struggle with the thing that
you have made is the most demoralizing,
heart wrenching,
awful experience but it valves you,
you vow, that you will do better.
Because you really see the pain
in the frustration of people.
So it's a really good thing to do,
even if you just sit in on one day.
So we wanna pass this on to other people,
right?
So first of all,
encourage attendance, right?
Get other people involved,
if you're gonna run a session
don't do it behind closed doors.
Well, obviously you don't want a room
full of people looking down and
watching the attendee but if you couldn't
stream it online or something like that.
In person it's great to even if they're
sitting in another room and you're just
streaming it through to the other room,
really good if they can all sit around and
talk about it, people get quite
animated and it's why did she do that?
And what did she mean by that and
they're all bouncing it It
creates a great atmosphere.
So if you can get people to turn up,
that is amazing.
You can also stream it more widely
to people in the office and
people can just tune in.
Some organizations I know have a big
screen like this one here, and
they just have it on in the background,
right?
Really low volume and
it just plays in the background and
it's amazing how much people stop and
watch it.
And then you can also discuss
it with their attendees, right?
Then you get them discussing the results,
what came out,
what they think we should do about it.
All that kind of engagement works really
well if you can get people involved,
but people are often
reluctant to get involved.
So a kind of initial step, yeah go for it.
>> And
what people would you want to be there?
Or even are there some groups where
you wouldn't care to have them there?
Are you saying that any sort of developer,
any sort of
administrative assistant, a stakeholder
>> Everybody.
>> Anybody.
>> There is nobody I would not want
to watch at least one user session.
There are some people that it's worth
their time to go more regularly and
by the way I would include
developers in that.
Because I think designers can be very
snobby about it's our job to do design,
it's developer's job to do development and
they've got nothing to add to it and
I call BS on that.
I think developers are incredibly,
they probably in fact,
I've got an article on my site that
argues that developers impact the user
experience more than designers do.
In things like performance,
in things like error messaging,
in things like security, logging.
All the complicated interface elements
of many applications are actually
designed by developers and
not touched by designers.
So I think developers play a crucial
role and should be involved.
And most senior stakeholders I
think should at least see one or
two sessions it's good.
Stakeholders if they're making
decisions about the usability and
functionality they should be involved.
Anybody really anybody
that's interested or
any if they're not interested forced them.
But the other very valuable tool if you
can get people involved in they are often
reluctant because everybody's busy.
They've all got loads of meetings,
blah blah blah.
Maybe pizza isn't their thing and
bribing them with pizza didn't do it.
Recordings, recordings are really
worthwhile and I touched on this before,
but I do just wanna touch
on it very briefly again.
Highs and lows, low light videos,
good things that happened,
all of that kind of it show
edited videos of what went well,
what went badly distributing that around
really valuable people watch that.
Then they're more likely to come to the
next user session that you've seen because
it inspires them and excites them.
Also, I just crowbar clips into
every presentation I ever give.
We all have a little clip to
show just to force people to pay
attention to this stuff.
So the prototype stage
is an amazing stage for
doing kind of more traditional
usability testing.
Yeah, it does take
a little bit more effort,
especially if you're gonna do in person or
you're gonna do facilitated.
But it's absolutely worth it and do it at
that time before you stop building stuff.
Once you start building stuff,
the cost of making changes shoots up,
and nobody's willing to act upon what
they discover in usability testing.
But if you do at the prototype stage,
the costs are relatively low for
making changes at that stage.
So just to summarize,
prototyping would probably be the best
opportunity to do your
testing that you can have.
Remote unfacilitated testing is often
the fastest option facilitated in person
does provide significantly more insights
if you've got the time to do it.
So that's basically my attitude.
And yeah, but most of all,
don't bother doing any of that if you're
not gonna make good use of the results,
either through improving the service or
engaging with stakeholders, ideally both.
If you can do both of those things through
it, then you double the value of doing
the usability testing, basically
>> I'm curious about the dynamic of
observers.
>> Yes.
>> Now I can imagine that somebody who is
acting as the person doing the testing.
>> Yeah.
>> That they might be unnerved with
people in the room watching, and
if you've got like ten people.
>> No, you mustn't do that.
>> Okay.
>> Right.
>> Great,
could you clarify then when you're saying,
okay, I wanna encourage observers.
>> Yeah, sorry I got in a mess
when I was saying that.
So let me repeat what I was
getting at much clearer.
So in the room, if you're doing
inperson usability testing,
there's the participant who's
in front of the computer.
There is a facilitator that
will sit next to them and
be their guide if you're
doing facilitated.
Then everything on their screen, okay, and
the audio is being pumped through
to another room via Lookback or
Zoom or whatever you choose to use
into an extra room where you can
have as many people sitting and
chatting as you want, right?
So that's the kind of replacement for
the old fashioned single way
mirror way of doing it where.
So no the most I ever have
sometimes I will have
a third person in the room,
which is a note taker.
But even that these days I very rarely
do because it's been recorded anyway and
I can watch it back afterwards.
But there are occasions where I know
if it's just say me doing some testing,
and I know that I'm not gonna be editing
the video down it's really just for
my own learning.
Then sometimes I prefer for notes to be
taken as I go along because otherwise I
have to watch all those videos back,
right?
So that doubles the amount of
time I'm spending doing it.
So in those occasions,
it's worth having someone taking notes.
It's very hard to facilitate and
take notes at the same time.
I find anyway,
perhaps that's me, all right?
Yeah, go for it.
>> I have a more general question.
How do you manage expectations when
you're refactoring or remaking
an existing product to remove the initial
shock and bias of things being different?
>> They're right [LAUGH] that's quite a
complicated question is the honest answer.
So there are two sides to it.
There is the shock to
internal stakeholders, right?
And then there's the shock
to the end users.
I'm perfuming you're talking
about the end users there.
>> You said that this bias
can come from stakeholders or
>> Yes, she did see I said
stakeholders, right?
With stakeholders it's easier in a way,
because you drip feed them all
the way along one of the big.
And this goes back to this ta-da moment
thing that's kind of been traditional in
doing design, where the designer goes
away and does magic in a room, right?
And then they come back and go, ta-da!
Look at my amazing design.
And everybody goes that
wasn't what I was expecting.
But if you have been
showing them wireframes,
if you've been showing the mood boards,
if you've been showing them design comps,
if you've been showing them prototypes
as they're being developed,
then they're being drip fed all the time
and they're seeing the design evolve.
And that is far less of a shock to their
system as they see it coming about,
especially if you're building
alongside that a communications
about why you're doing what you're doing,
etc.
So one of the things I recommend with
clients that are doing big redesigns.
Again, a universities is a great example
where there's basically hundreds and
hundreds of people across
the organization that are all go
completely lose their minds when
you launch this new site and
they go it's because you're wondering.
So what I do with organizations
like that is actually,
I send an email to everybody
in the organization and say.
If you care about the website,
sign up for our mailing list and
we'll keep you informed as things go.
And I run in parallel to the development,
an entire comms campaign,
basically saying, this is what we're
doing, this is why we're doing it.
Here's where we're at now and
I keep I'm informed so when it goes live,
there's no shock.
Now, when it comes to end users,
it's a little bit more complicated
because in that situation
there will be a shock moment.
When you first launch a new website,
oftentimes you break people's
procedural knowledge.
So we've learned to do something
in a particular way, right?
And even if that has been improved upon,
the fact that it's
broken the way that we know,
means that we get upset.
So there are several things you can do.
First of all, is not panic, right?
Normally I say, ignore anything feedback
for the first two weeks, right?
Every time Facebook redesigns,
everybody goes epileptic for ten minutes.
And there are Facebook groups created
complaining about Facebook and
every just goes nuts.
But you give it two weeks and everybody's
over it because two weeks is about
enough time feel procedural knowledge
to adapt to the new interface.
And at that point, you stop caring, right?
So that's one thing but ideally,
you wanna soften the blow to begin with.
So there are a couple
of ways of doing that.
But one of my preferences is
to actually open up a beta.
So sometimes you'll go to a website and
it says, hey,
check out the new version of our website.
And you can click on that and off you go
to the new version but there's always
a button that says I wanna go back to
the old version and you can go roll back.
So techniques like that can help.
But a lot of it comes down to stakeholder
management as you rightly said and
preparing stakeholders for users flipping
out when you first change things.
And I always tell stakeholders look when
this goes live every one of go nuts for
two weeks and then calm down.
And just knowing it's coming gives
stakeholders a little bit more
confidence not to panic.